I performed this part of the project on my laptop using WSL 
(Windows Subsystem for Linux) since I use Windows 11. WSL 
provides a real Ubuntu environment inside Windows which 
allowed me to properly install and test everything as required. I 
opened Ubuntu from the Start menu updated the system and then 
performed all the steps. 
Python is very common on Linux systems. Most distributions such 
as Ubuntu, Fedora and Mint already include Python 3 by default. It 
is widely used for scripting, automation and application 
development because it is simple and works well with Linux 
commands. 
Installation Method 
Python is usually pre-installed but it can also be installed using 
package managers:- 
• On Ubuntu/Debian: sudo apt install python3  
• On Fedora/Red Hat: sudo dnf install python3  
I used sudo apt install python3 in my WSL Ubuntu and it installed 
quickly without needing any manual setup. Compiling from source 
is generally not required unless a specific version is needed. 
Key Directories 
After installation Python is located in standard Linux directories: 
• /usr/bin/python3 → main executable  
• /usr/lib/python3 → standard libraries  
• /usr/lib/python3/dist-packages → additional installed packages  
Python does not maintain large configuration or log files like 
services do. It works as a tool rather than a background process. 
User and Group 
Python runs under the current logged-in user. This improves 
security because it only has the permissions of that user and cannot 
modify system files without proper access. 
Service Management 
Python itself is not a service. It runs only when commands are 
executed. However, Python-based applications can be configured 
as services using systemd if needed. For this project, I only used 
Python as a command-line tool. 
Update Model 
Python updates are handled through the Linux package manager. I 
used: 
• sudo apt update  
• sudo apt upgrade  
These commands install updates and security patches from Ubuntu 
repositories. 
Overall Python works smoothly on Linux. It is lightweight, secure 
and easy to manage which makes it a very practical open-source 
tool.